# BMO

BMO is a server side framework, focused at enabling developers to quickly implement high quality Restful services,
but it can be used to implement any kind of http server.
Aims to reduce boiler plate code by having an opinionated project structure, and provide
flexibility in code by providing robust unobtrusive dependency injection.

## Project structure
BMO expects your project to be structured with some folder.
In the 'baseDirectory' BMO expects there to be several folders
```
|-\
|--config
|--dependencies
|--routes
```
BMO expects the top level modules to export certain things.

### Config
The config directory is expected to export an async function that takes in an object parsed from the command line.

```
export default async cliParams =>({
  // my configuration object
  })
```
### Dependencies
The dependencies directory should export an object. each key on the object should be either: another object, an array, or a function (async or sync).
Each leaf function will be invoked with the manifest generated by running it through BMO's DI framework
each return value will be available in the dependencies portion of the manifest. see [DI](#DI) for more information on how dependency injection is done.

```
export default async ({ config, dependencies :{ myDependency } }) => ({
    // my module object
  })
```

### Routes
The routes folder is where you declare your routes.
It should export an array of functions that when invoked returns a route object

```
export default async ({config, dependencies}) => ({
  path:'api/things/v1/',
  method:'post',
  schema:{
    requestBody,
    responseBody
  },
  handler:async(ctx,next)=>{}
})
```
- `path` - indicates what the path to the handers should be.
- `method` - is the http method that the handler is for.
- `schema`- an optinal schema takes in two sub objects, these objects should be [joi](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@hapi/joi) schemas that are then used to
generate OpenAPI documentation for the resources. These are optional and will be ignored if not supplied.
- `handler`- Is an async function that is invoked when a request is received with the given path and method.


# CLI

BMO comes with an easy to use command line interface. It takes care of starting up and running your application
It even comes with a dev mode that will watch your files and restart during development

install the bmo cli with your package manager of choice:

`npm install @lmig/bmo-cli`

If you want BMO can be installed at the global level,
but it is recommended to be added on a per-project level.

once installed in your base directory you can change your start commands to be:

`bmo start`
 or
`bmo start -d`

If run in a folder structure as outlined above an http server with all the routes mounted
will be started, and available.

CLI commands:

`bmo start`

|Option          | Description                                              |
|----------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
|-d              | Start the server in dev mode, changes restart the server |
|-s <dir>        | Add a directory to be served as static assets            |
|-c <dir>        | Set the base directory where BMO looks for the config    |
|--baseDir <dir> | Set the base directory for BMO's entry point.            |


## DI

The DI or dependency injection that BMO supplies is meant to be totally unobtrusive.
Simply attach your constructor to the root dependencies export, and deconstruct your modules dependencies
off of the manifest passed to each constructor.

Why dependency injection over `import`?

When you import a module, your are coupling your module directly to the imported module.
References to dependencies are hard coded and strewn throughout the code base.
If you need to change a dependency or module you have to update every reference to it and ensure that
the interface was not broken. Using dependency injection allows you to wrap your
external dependencies in modules that are then shared through the DI framework.
Any changes or updates are isolated to the one module, and percolated from that single point.


Database module Example

```
export default async ({ config, dependencies :{ connectionPool } }) => ({
    query:async (query) => {
      const connection = await connectionPool.getConnection();
      const result = await connection.execute(query)
      return result;
    }
  })
```

During application start up BMO has 3 phases, configuration, injection, and running.
First BMO resolves the config function. After that it instantiates all the dependency modules.
During this process it inspects each module's constructor to ensure that all of it's dependencies are available.
It does this by parsing the functions AST. Currently it is well tested using the destructure syntax, It also attempt's to find any
accesses to the first parameters 'dependencies' key if the destructure syntax is not used.
Using other syntax may create different AST formats that may not be supported.
Using transpilers, minifiers, or uglifiers that modify the AST may or may not work.

## Default dependencies

BMO has some built in dependencies to make your life easier.
- `errorMap` -> this dependency controls how your application maps errors to http statuses.
- `errors` -> this contains references to all the error types defined by BMO.
- `events` -> This module acts as an event hub for your application. Use it to communicate via pub-sub across dependencies.
- `gracefulShutdown` -> This module implements a graceful shutdown. It emits a shutdown event when the application requests to close.
- `errorHandler` -> This module catches any middleware errors an sends back an appropriate response based off the errorMap.
- `requestValidator` -> This module validates requests based off of a joi schema.
- `serveStatic` -> this module can be used to serve static files.
- `swagger` -> this module adds in an open api spec to your application based off the schemas defined in your routes.
- `health` -> This module adds in a basic health endpoint to allow live checking at /health


## Other BMO modules

- 'eureka' -> Implements eureka service discovery for BMO applications






